					 CONTACT

			Rewrite by Michael Goldenberg

		    Based on the Novel by Carl Sagan

		   Written by:  Menno Meyjes
					 Ann Druyan & Carl Sagan
					 Michael Goldenberg
					 Jim V. Hart

								 September 8, 1995

UNIVERSE - EIGHT BILLION LIGHT YEARS FROM EARTH

The cosmos on the grandest scale we know.  Clusters of
galaxies strewn like sea froth; whorls and smudges of
light representing hundreds of billions of stars each.

MILKY WAY GALAXY

A view from the edge.  We DRIFT ABOVE the majestic,
spiraling disk, tens of thousands of light years across.

RING NEBULA (M57) - CONSTELLATION LYRA

A local group of stars, the brightest of which is a point
of hot, blue-white light...

VEGA

Rings of glowing gas and debris surround the giant, blue-
white star... and then we notice something ahead of us in
polar orbit.

CLOSER

An immense, world-sized construct gleams in Vega's blue
light.  Far too big to be artificial, by human standards
-- but this wasn't built to human standards.

Bowl-shaped transmitters cover the quicksilver gel-like
surface of the polyhedron, forming then vanishing again.
We DESCEND INTO one vast bowl as it deepens --

-- then silently convulses.  A lost chord.  We SWING
AROUND, assuming a breathtaking, MOVING POV --

A message begins its journey.

								    DISSOLVE TO:

SUBTERRANEAN DARKNESS

Shadows appear, dark and murky.  Slowly we become aware of
a MUFFLED, PULSING sound; like a DISTANT, BOOMING
HEARTBEAT.

Suddenly a bright light unzips the amniotic darkness; two
great hands reach in to assist what we now realize is a
Caesarean birth.

ELLIE ARROWAY

age five seconds, opens her eyes wide.  In the b.g., we
can see a nurse methodically giving CPR to the unseen
mother; the decor beyond tells us we are in a small-town
doctor's office.  The DOCTOR holds Ellie as he calls
softly to the nurse.

					DOCTOR
		You can call it, Nan.  Mark time of
		birth as... 12:04 A.M.
			   (looking down at the
			    baby)
		Happy New Year, little lady.
			   (to the nurse)
		Tell Ted he has a girl.

TED ARROWAY stands watching through the window in the
office door.  Numb.

BABY'S TINY HAND

clasps its mother's finger.

								    CUT TO:

WIDE TABLEAU

Ted, holding his newborn daughter, sitting quietly next to
the bed where his sheet-covered wife still lies.

EXT.  MAIN STREET (NEHALEM, OREGON) - DAWN

Ted, carefully holding little Ellie, walks down the empty
street, his FOOTSTEPS ECHOING...

DEEP SPACE - MESSAGE

rockets through a black dust cloud where young stars are
just beginning to glow.  An icy worldlet evaporates,
releasing gasses which blow away in spectral bursts of
iridescent color...

SURFACE OF ALIEN WORLD

We are MOVING OVER an exotic, technological landscape;
strange ALIEN SQUELCHES and SQUEALS become audible --

-- and then a child's hand reaches in and twists a giant
dial on what we now see is an old shortwave RADIO.

					ELLIE (V.O.)
		CQ CQ WR2 GFO... WR2 GFO, come back.

INT.  ARROWAY HOUSE - NIGHT

SIX-YEAR OLD ELLIE leans in towards a large microphone.

					ELLIE
		CQ WR2 GFO, do you copy?
			   (calls)
		I'm not getting anything.

Ted joins his daughter at the workbench where she sits in
front of the short-wave, her feet dangling from the stool.
He puts his hands on her shoulders.

					TED
		Small moves, Captain, small moves.

					ELLIE
		I can't move any smaller.

					TED
		Try again between the static and
		'Hey Jude'; that's where they're
		hiding.

Ellie bites her lip, tries again.  Her little hand slowly
turns the dial -- suddenly --

					RADIO VOICE (V.O.)
			   (filtered)
		Copy... WRS GFO...
			   (off STATIC)
		W2P KLD talking... what's your
		handle, WR2 GFO?

					ELLIE
		What do I do?

					TED
		Talk to him.

					ELLIE
		But what do I say?

					TED
		Just be yourself, Captain.  Find out
		where he is.

Ellie tentatively reaches out and grasps the microphone.

					ELLIE
		Where are you calling from, W2P KLD,
		come back.

					RADIO VOICE (V.O.)
			   (filtered)
		Pensacola, over.

					ELLIE
		Pensacola -- !
			   (beat)
		Where's Pensacola?

					TED
		Give you a hint:  orange juice.

MAP OF WORLD

above the work area is dotted with colored pins; Ellie's
finger traces the Gulf of Mexico, stopping at Pensacola.

Ellie, breathless with wonder.  Contact.

EXT.  ARROWAY BEDROOM - NIGHT

The house in the woods dwarfed under the immense dome of
night.

INT.  ELLIE'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Now in her pajamas, Ellie sits hunched over in bed,
working intently on her latest masterpiece.  A crayon
behind her ear.

					ELLIE
		Could we hear to China?

					TED
		On that old shortwave?  Maybe on a
		clear night.  Come on now, under the
		covers.

					ELLIE
		Could we hear to the moon?

					TED
		Big enough radio, I don't see why
		not.

					ELLIE
		Could we hear God?

					TED
		Mmm, that's a good one.  Maybe his
		echo...
			   (then)
		Okay, no more stalling.

					ELLIE
			   (coloring frantically)
		Okay, okay... there.

She hands Ted the drawing.  As he holds it up to the lamp
we see it shows an idealized beach, palm trees.  It glows
in the light.

					ELLIE
		Pensacola.

					TED
		That's a beauty, Captain.
			   (kisses her on the
			    forehead)
		Now get some sleep.

He carefully pins the drawing on the wall, turns out the
light.  As he starts out she says softly --

					ELLIE
		Do you think there're people on
		other planets?

Ted pauses, smiles at his daughter's inexhaustible
curiosity.  He returns, sits on the edge of her bed, now
lit by starlight.

					TED
		Well let's see... the Universe is a
		pretty big place... And the one
		thing I know about nature is it
		hates to waste anything.  So I guess
		I'd say if it is just us, an awful
		lot of space is going to waste.

He tenderly brushes a stray lock of her hair behind her
ear.

					TED
		Time to sleep now, Captain.  But you
		can ask more questions in the
		morning, okay?

					ELLIE
			   (sighs)
		Okay.

He kisses her again, rises, goes to leave, stopping at the
door to watch her.  Ellie looks out the window at the
stars...

DEEP SPACE - MESSAGE

A comet blows by.  We chase it, riding its luminous tail
of evaporating ice...

TED'S CALLUSED HAND

careful as a safecracker, slowly TURNS the DIAL on an
ancient A.M. RADIO -- finally landing on an old HANK
WILLIAMS TUNE.

INT.  TED'S TRUCK - MOVING - DAY

Ted sits up, smiles in satisfaction.

EXT.  TRUCK - DAY

The old red Ford trundles through the pines along a
mountain road.

INT.  ARROWAY KITCHEN - DAY

NINE-YEAR OLD ELLIE throws her schoolbooks on the table
and goes to the refrigerator.  As she starts to take out
items we see her hand-drawn chart taped to the side of the
fridge; Mondays and Thursdays say "Ellie Cooks!"

EXT.  MOUNTAINS - DAY

A fawn is feeding.  CUT WIDE to reveal it standing in the
middle of an empty road, nibbling at the grass growing out
of the old blacktop.  The TWITTER of a BIRD; the wind in
the trees... and then, far in the distance, we hear an
ENGINE STRAINING.

LOGGING TRUCK

heads up the mountain road, its driver humming along to
the same HANK WILLIAMS TUNE.

INT.  ARROWAY KITCHEN - DAY

A stew of some sort bubbles on the stove.  Ellie hums as
she experiments with every spice on the rack.

SERIES OF SHOTS

A)  Ted sings to the RADIO as he eases off the gas to
    take a bend in the road --

B)  The fawn continues to graze, oblivious.  We can now
    hear the RADIO in the DISTANCE.

C)  Ted look up as he rounds the bend -- sees the deer --

D)  The logging TRUCK ROARS around a blind curve --

E)  Ted swerves onto the wrong side of the road, misses
    the deer, sighs in relief --

F)  The truck driver looks up, sees the Ford coming at
    him, Ted still looking over his shoulder at --

FAWN

who suddenly looks up at the O.S. sound of a HORRIBLE
CRASH --

-- then bounds off into the woods.

INT.  ARROWAY KITCHEN - DUSK

The table is set.  A stubby candle and some wildflowers in
a peanut-butter jar.

Ellie sits at her place, frowning.  She glances up at the
wall clock -- and then slowly stands as she sees something
else THROUGH the kitchen window:

A sheriffs' car is pulling up, lights going, siren silent.
The sheriff looks up -- their eyes meet -- PUSH IN ON
Ellie --

								    CUT TO:

EXT.  COUNTRYSIDE - NIGHT

Little cones of light illuminate the darkness as NEIGHBORS
search with their flashlights, calling:

					NEIGHBORS
		Ellie... Ellie...?

EXT.  ARROWAY HOUSE - NIGHT

The sheriff stands in front of the house, shaking his head
as he talks to a MINISTER.  VOICES continue to CALL.

We start to CRANE UP, HIGHER and HIGHER until we clear the
house -- REVEALING Ellie lying on the roof, staring up at
the stars.  Her fingers grip the shingles...

EXT.  COUNTRY CEMETERY - DAY

The Minister kneels next to Ellie, watching her knead
another piece of bread into a ball before tossing it into
a small fish pond.  In the b.g. we see the sheriff and
several relatives watching.

					MINISTER
		I'm so sorry, Ellie.  More than I
		can ever say.

Ellie keeps watching the pond.  The clouds overhead are
reflected in the patches of water between the lily pads.

					ELLIE
		Those lily pads must look like
		clouds to that carp, don't you
		think?

The Minister frowns.  Gently:

					MINISTER
		Ellie... this life doesn't last
		forever.  Some day you and your Dad
		are going to be together again, in
		heaven.

					ELLIE
			   (turns to him;
			    equally gentle)
		He isn't in heaven; he's in the
		ground.  We just put him there,
		remember?

OFF the astonished Minister --

INT.  ARROWAY HOUSE - NIGHT

Relatives, townspeople, the Minister and sheriff mingle
quietly.  The kitchen table and counters are covered with
a sea of casseroles.

Ellie watches the gathered from a doorway, then slips
away.

INT.  ARROWAY HOUSE - WORKSHOP AREA - NIGHT

Ellie slowly approaches the darkened bench area where the
SHORTWAVE is set up; the pin-dotted map above it.  She
TURNS it ON; the dial glows.

She reaches out for the microphone, holding it tightly in
both hands.  Pushes the button.

					ELLIE
		CQ WR2, this is GFO, do you copy?
			   (looking up)
		Dad, this is Ellie, come back.

EXT.  HOUSE - HIGH ANGLE - NIGHT

Tiny Ellie is visible THROUGH the window, and as we begin
to PULL UP and AWAY her emotion-choked voice continues,
small and faraway...

					ELLIE (V.O.)
		This is Eleanor Arroway broadcasting
		on 9.2 megahertz.  Dad, are you
		there?  Come back.  Come back.  Come
		back...

								    CUT TO:

DEEP SPACE - MESSAGE

-- rockets through the Rosette Nebula, a vast cloud of
glowing red hydrogen illuminated by young hot stars a
hundred times brighter than the sun.  Their solar wind is
blowing out an immense cavity in the interstellar gas and
dust.

PALM LEAF

lies on the streetlamp-lit sidewalk.

We hear the sound of a BUS PULLING UP, its door opening.
After a moment a pair of sneakered feet tentatively step
INTO FRAME.  A suitcase is set down next to them as we
hear the BUS WHEEZE OFF into the night.  A hand reaches
down, picks up the palm leaf.

22-YEAR-OLD ELLIE examines it, then looks up in
apprehension at the old prewar Spanish structure of Cal
Tech.

INT.  CAMPUS BUILDING - CORRIDOR - NIGHT

Ellie's FOOTSTEPS ECHO as she walks down a corridor, its
walls hung with portraits of Galileo, Copernicus, Hubble.
She pauses at a photograph of Einstein standing outside
the entrance we just saw.  Sound up cut:  THE RAMONES' "I
Wanna Be Sedated" --

INT.  DORM CORRIDOR - NIGHT

An altogether different sort of hallway, reflecting the
imagination and individuality of its occupants.  The walls
are covered with whimsical graffiti ("anthropocentrism is
a 17 letter word;"  "WATCH FOR FLYING POTATOES") and 3
A.M. paintings of alien sunsets; the MUSIC is coming from
behind a door covered in Tolkien and comic book art.

As Ellie enters this strange new world she begins to hear
animated voices coming from a room at the end of the hall.

					VOICE #1 (V.O.)
		... radio luminosity?

					VOICE #2 (V.O.)
		I dunno, maybe a post-spectral
		starburst or something.

					EVERYBODY (V.O.)
		Right, right --

					VOICE #3 (V.O.)
		E+A is an elliptical?  How can you
		tell it's being lensed?  Pass me the
		Fruity Pebbles.

					VOICE #4 (V.O.)
		Well I guess you'd have to check
		other elliptical galaxies, Mr.
		Wizard --

INT.  DORM ROOM - NIGHT

As Ellie peers around the corner we see six or seven
STUDENTS, mostly male, of mixed nationality and race,
passing around cereal which they eat from the box.  A
primitive (circa 1980) home-built personal computer glows
in the b.g.; a door opens onto a terrace and the
California night beyond.  They stop, look up at Ellie --

					ELLIE
		I -- uh --
			   (clears her throat)
		I was looking for Koestler Hall?

					GUY (STUDENT)
		This is it.  Hey, do you know the
		average radio-luminosity of an E+A
		elliptical galaxy?

					ELLIE
		Um... I'm not sure.
			   (hesitates)
		Maybe you could deduce it from
		lensing a post-spectral
		starburst...?

					GUY
			   (beat, then to his
			    friend)
		See, I told you!
			   (to Ellie)
		Want some Fruity Pebbles?
		Carcinogenic, but totally worth it.

Ellie takes the box, and as she tentatively enters the
room -- nibbles on the cereal -- she slowly sits.  Smiles.
The argument rages on.  She's home.

DEEP SPACE - MESSAGE

We ROAR by a rapidly rotating, flashing pulsar.  Cosmic
dust filters the light into the shifting spectrum of
colors...

EXT.  MOJAVE DESERT - DAY

DAVID DRUMLIN, 42, fit, sardonic -- and the world's
foremost radio astronomer -- leads a group of grad
students past the first Jet Propulsion Lab radio
telescopes at Goldstone.  Ellie lags behind talking to
PETER VALERIAN, who is about as good-looking as an
astronomer should be allowed to be.

					ELLIE
		... Drumlin said you're been down at
		Arecibo for the last year.

					PETER
		It's beautiful but it does get a
		little lonely.  Sometimes I think
		the reason we build these things in
		such godforsaken places isn't to
		avoid excess radio traffic but
		because we're all such pathetic
		antisocial misfits... Speaking of
		which:  How're you getting on with
		the old man?

					ELLIE
		He's an incredible prick but I never
		learned so much in my life.

					PETER
			   (smiles)
		That's what they all say.

In the b.g. we can see the majestic twin dishes tilted up
toward the hard blue sky.  An awkward moment, which Ellie
fills by extending her hand.

					ELLIE
		Ellie.  Arroway.

					PETER
		Peter Valerian.

					ELLIE
		Sounds like a Russian general.

					PETER
		Yavol.

					DRUMLIN
			   (calling back)
		You're out of shape, Valerian.
		What's the matter, eat too many
		tacos down there in Puerto Rico?

He pronounces it "tackos" in his distinctive Montana
twang.

					ELLIE
		I read your paper on ETI's.  It's
		brilliant.

					PETER
			   (embarrassed but
			    pleased)
		Keep it down, okay?  Drumlin thinks
		I'm enough of a flake as it is.
			   (then)
		Look -- everyone here has their
		little fetishes.  Caven goes to
		topless bars, Vernon's got his
		carnivorous plants... mine just
		happens to be extraterrestrial
		intelligence.

					ELLIE
		What a coincidence.  It happens to
		be my fetish too.

A brief but electric moment between them.  They both feel
it.  Drumlin calls back from the head of the group:

					DRUMLIN
		You two coming along or you just
		gonna do it right here in the sand?

The other students laugh good-naturedly.  Ellie and Peter,
rather than being embarrassed, seem to be considering the
idea.

EXT.  MOJAVE CLIFFS - LATE AFTERNOON

A dusky orange sun hangs over the mountains, the Goldstone
telescopes visible in the distance.  Ellie and Peter walk
along a windswept cliff overlooking a vast desert lake.

					ELLIE
		... I'm just so sick of feeling
		defensive about the things I care
		about!  Or being lumped in with the
		lunatic fringe by people like
		Drumlin, when if they'd just put
		aside their preconceptions for two
		seconds and look at the facts...

					PETER
		They can't.  I think it's against
		human nature to admit to that level
		of... insignificance; to not see
		yourself as basically the center of
		the universe.

					ELLIE
		It's like the pre-Copernicans who
		swore the sun revolved around the
		Earth, or the Victorians at the end
		of the last century who concluded
		that all major discoveries had now
		been made.  I mean... try to imagine
		civilization a thousand years ahead
		of us -- then imagine trying to
		explain... I dunno, a microwave oven
		-- to someone even a hundred years
		ago -- I mean the basic concepts
		didn't exist...

					PETER
			   (murmurs)
		'Any sufficiently advanced
		technology...'

					ELLIE
			   (finishing it with
			    him)
		'... is indistinguishable from
		magic.'

A moment... and then Peter takes her hand like it's the
most natural thing in the world.

					PETER
		I dunno.  I know I should be
		objective, ice-cold hard-assed
		scientific about it, but just on an
		intuitive level -- what's the point
		of a universe so vast if we're the
		only ones it it?  It'd just be such
		a... waste of space.

Ellie stops, looks at him -- and then slowly, carefully
leans in and kisses him.  A pleasantly awkward beat.

					ELLIE
		Sorry.

Peter laughs.

EXT.  DESERT - NIGHT

A million stares blaze overhead as Peter and Ellie make
love on an Indian blanket in the middle of the desert.
Ellie looks searchingly up into Peter's face... and then
her gaze drifts upwards to the canopy above...

SQUIRREL

gnaws on a beechnut as two enormous pair of feet walk by.

					ELLIE (V.O.)
		-- but I've already submitted my
		proposal!

EXT.  CAL TECH CAMPUS - DAY

Ellie and Drumlin walk briskly, in heated discussion.

					DRUMLIN
		I'm sorry, Miss Arroway, not only is
		it too Speculative a subject for a
		doctoral dissertation, at this point
		in your career it'd be tantamount to
		suicide.

					ELLIE
		I'm willing to take that risk.

					DRUMLIN
		I'm not.  You're far too promising a
		scientist to waste your considerable
		gifts on this nonsense --

					ELLIE
		Dr. Drumlin, we are talking about
		what could potentially be the most
		important discovery in the history
		of humanity.  There are over four
		hundred billion stars out there --

					DRUMLIN
		And only two probabilities:  One:
		there is intelligent life in the
		universe but they're so far away
		you'll never contact it in your
		lifetime --

					ELLIE
		You're --

					DRUMLIN
		Two:  There's nothing out there but
		noble gasses and carbon compounds
		and you'd be wasting your time.

					ELLIE
		What if you're wrong?
			   (as he starts to
			    speak)
		No -- I'll grant you probabilities
		but as a scientist without all the
		evidence -- you can't deny the
		possibility -- and I believe even
		the remotest possibility of
		something this profoundly...
		profound is worth investigation --
		and worth taking a few risks.

					DRUMLIN
		I disagree.

					ELLIE
		Then disagree but don't stand in my
		way!

By this point they've gathered a small crowd.  Drumlin
regards her for for a moment; then, softly:

					DRUMLIN
		What is it that makes you so lonely,
		Miss Arroway?  What is it that
		compels you to search the heavens
		for life when there's so much of it
		being neglected right here at home?

Body blow.  Ellie just stares, stunned.  Finally:

					DRUMLIN
		I will approve a general thesis on
		the detection of radio signals from
		space but that's all.  No E.T.I.s.
		Enough?

Flushed, overwhelmed... Ellie nods.  Enough.

DEEP SPACE - MESSAGE

Approaching a backwater area of the galaxy.  A small,
unspectacular yellow star comes INTO VIEW.

PAIR OF HEADLIGHTS

cuts through the night.  A Jeep negotiates an overgrown
mountain road.

EXT.  ARECIBO, PUERTO RICO - AERIAL SHOT - PRE-DAWN

The two tiny beams from high above as we DESCEND OVER a
mountainous jungle range, a hot-house of life that drops
away to reveal an enormous white thousand-foot radio
telescope, cradled in the natural bowl of the mountain
valley.

SUPERIMPOSE:  ARECIBO, PUERTO RICO - 1992

EXT.  ARECIBO - DAWN

The mud-spattered Jeep pulls up in front of the living
quarters of the primitive installation.  Peter Valerian
climbs out, looks up at the crude f